Welcome back.
This is a quick optional video that well with something that you probably won't use.
But I want you to just know that it's out there and that is there's actually an extra data type that
I did and talk about.
And it's called complex.
And as the name suggests it's pretty complex.
However a complex number again is a number that is a third type instead of int and float.
We also have this type four numbers.
Now the reason I'm not really teaching complex is that you only use this if you're doing something really
really complex math.
Most of the time you'll never use it.
I personally have never used it but it is good to know that it exists.
It's the equivalent to a real number and you can read about complex numbers if you want.
But again that's something that you don't need to worry.
Ninety nine point nine percent of the time.
Another thing I want to talk to you about is this idea that these integers and floats get stored such
as five in memory as binary that is as binary numbers ones and zeros and there's actually an action
or function that we can use in Python called Ben for binary and you can see that a bean returns the
binary representation of an integer.
So it's going to return whatever the binary version of 5 is if I click Run here while I have to print
remember.
So let's print and click Run and I get the binary representation.
Now instead of all zeros and ones there's also this idea of B and that is what Python uses underneath
the hood to say a when I see this number with zero B that's a binary number.
But if I Google binary number five I see that the binary number for 5 is 1 0 1 which again that's what
we see here so that's really cool.
Really interesting just to know that it exists by the way.
Just for fun let's say that we want to return this into a decimal let's say where the computer and we
just retrieve this binary number I can do it and then wrap this like this in single or double quotes
and then with the end I can also say hey I want this return to a number that is base 10 which is what
us humans use.
So if I actually do print here and click Run well actually we have to do base to here.
Right because what we're saying is hey this number is base 2 and convert it to integer and base to number
is while zeros and 1 it's a binary number.
So if I click right here look at that I get five.
So in your head you can think of it this way when we story number like five an integer like five when
a computer retrieves that number.
Let's say we're do some addition.
Well it's going to grab this for memory.
It's going to say well this is a binary number and I'm going to convert it into integer.
Very very cool.
Now the reason I taught this here you won't see this a lot in beginner courses and especially so early
in the course.
But I think it's an important principle although you might not get tested on this ever.
For you to just understand how things are working underneath the hood I believe is an important thing
for you to do in order to become a great developer.
So hopefully this doesn't confuse you too much.
I'll see you in the next video by.